# GroceryHelp
Application that organizes your grocery list by meals you want to make in a week and individual items.

Project Journal:
Day 1 (1/13/2026): Created a 4 phase plan with the help of Claude.ai with the goal to create this web app and learn the foundations of web application programming. Also set up the file structure for what the end product might look like so I won't have to redesign the file structure in the middle of my project. Created the Github repository to practice Github skills and be able to reference old code if need be.

The plan is to first create a basic webapp that creates grocery lists for the user. No logging in/account creation necessary and no interesting css designs. I just want to create a strong foundation for the webapp. All the more interesting and fun developing like interesting webpage design, backend, and database utilization will come in later phases. Wish me luck!

Created a very basic html page with a title two input text boxes and an "add to list" button. When the button is pressed the text in the input line is added to a dynamic list and is displayed to the user with an "acquired button" that deletes the item from the list.

Next time i'll need to add the locations section to the list so items will be divided by where they'll be found in the store to make it easier for the user to collect items in similar locations.

Day 2 (1/15/2026): Struggled for a couple of hours trying to create a dynamic list inside of a list within Javascript. Decided to take a break and play around with CSS a little bit and made the page look just a little more interesting. Also was able to add the ability to add the location of the items but still need to figure out how to create seperate categories in the list and then add elements to each category without creating a new category that already exists. But I feel like I learned a bit more of how Javascript and HTML work together!

Day 3 (1/18/2026): Busy day today. I scrapped my whole app.js file as it just seemed to work really messily and didn't seem to be a long term solution to what I had planned for the future of this project. I decided it (with the help of claude.ai) to create a lists object that holds the list of location lists and the list of items within each location list. This took time, but the final product is a design i'm more familiar with and will be a million times easier to work with in the future. I now use a append and remove function to alter the lists and each time the lists are altered a renderLists function is called remapping the lists to the user on the webpage. I believe this process will make it much much easier to add SQL operations later on in the project but for now since the backend is in MVP standing at the moment the next plan is to touch up the page in CSS to make it look somewhat appealing and then on to setting up my first domain!